<!-- COMMUNITY-GOVERNANCE -->
# **Community Governance**


## **Open Community Call, IOTA Discord 15.07.21**




<!-- COMMUNITY - CALL AGENDA -->
### **Community - call Agenda:**

1. Welcome and Introduction - short recapp
1. The Vote in Firefly - proposed UI Flow
1. Firefly UI Design - Additional info - whatâ€™s important?
1. Should we set-up workgroups?
1. What do we need to do next and who will do it?
1. Open end community discussion for all of us to participate and create ideas



<!-- DISCUSSED TOPICS -->
### **Discussed Topics**

#### **Firefly vote Flow**
 
We discussed the proposed logical flow of a vote in Firefly following this Flow:

https://github.com/iota-community/Community-Governance/blob/main/Firefly%20Voting%20System.png

And agreed that it seems to be a usable solution and how we would want to voting process to happen.

#### **Firefly Frontend design UI/UX**

We showed the first designs created by the Team of Adam_unchained:

https://github.com/iota-community/Community-Governance/tree/main/Firefly-designs/first-batch

And the community was happy to see that. To not overload the design we agreed that the voters should get only general informations that are needed to do the voting steps directly in the design, but further detailed explanation of how the whole process works will be provided in a document hosted on GitHub. This will keep the Frontend nice and clean and not overcomplicate the task of voting for the users.

We discussed in detail most steps of the standard vote procedure.

It will be crucial to make the voting experience as easy and flawless as possible for users, but also inform then about all aspects. The community / group will work on documents, articles and video guides in advance to the first vote to explain the process to everyone



#### **Workgroups / Teams**

We hope that community members will pick up some tasks and form small teams to work together on different aspects and create progress.





**We want to highlight that the above-discussed topics are all open to discussions for every community member that wants to engage or raise concerns or disagreements about it. We would hope for positive feedback and input from the community on all the above-discussed topics. All meetings and calls will happen in the public channels and members are invited and welcome to join and raise their voices during the sessions. All code and technical solutions used in the IOTA voting system will always be fully open-sourced and published on GitHub**


#### **The next community call in the Discord is planned for Thursday 29.07. - at 2 pm GMT**

by Phylo#2233
